Now this actually isn't enough either,
we also have to think about the health of
specific characteristics of your adoption.
So, I like to think about this,
I just call these health metrics.
And so, there needs to be
a set of health scores, for
specific metrics that you care about,
that are important to your organization.
So I'll give you a couple examples,
if the version of the design system that's
in use is a really
important metric to you.
Then you might determine that
there's a grade you can assign,
to the system version.
So if somebody is using the current
version, they're getting a grade A.
If they're using the current
version back one,
they get a grade B, anything two or
older is a grade C, right?
Again, this is just an example and you
may not care as much about the version of
the system, perhaps you do,
your versioning by component, right.
So maybe there's a different metric for
you.
But what you're getting at,
is a specific metric that we wanna track
the health of across those
different levels of adoption.
Another example might
be product coverage so
how much of a product is using the system.
So 75% or more of my product
is built using the system,
that's phenomenal that's a grade A.
50 to 75, maybe is a B,
so on and so forth.
And so again, there may be a handful of
these health metrics, that you define.
and these are gonna grow and
change as your system does and
as your organization does, okay?
So don't make these set in stone, but
this is how you get at a much more
nuanced definition of adoption.
That also gives people a vision of how
they can come on board as subscribers,
and tracks the health of
all of those adoptions.
I will say it's really
hard to track this stuff.
And there are all kinds of articles
out there, if you just Google, like,
how do I track design system adoption,
right.
You're gonna get a lot of stuff.
And probably 80% of that Is
like somebody who's written
a little open source code scraper.
That goes out and looks at repos looks for
includes of your design system
components in product production
code bases or whatever.
That's great but
that's a tiny slice of adoption, okay?
That's one discipline that's
a developer somewhere that and
all that means is they
included it in their code.
It doesn't actually mean
they necessarily use it.
[LAUGH] That much, right?
So, what we need to recognize is
that adoption can happen across
every discipline.
So I'm interested in understanding,
how are my product owners
using the design system?
How are my UX writers using the design
system, how are my front-end designers,
front-end developers
using the design system?
QA, right I mean, one place for
all of these things,
to show me exactly how they should
look and feel thats a Q&A dream.
They should be loving this work, so
how do we think about adoption in a much
more perspective I want to think
about all those disciplines.
Anybody who's Java it is is to touch and
interact with,
how we get those interfaces out into
the open should be considered here.
And of course it's not enough,
to track it.
You also have to maintain it
this is really hard, okay.
As far as I can tell my best sort of
like just based on the interviews and
stuff the best advice that I can give
you in terms of maintaining adoption.
Is actually more about building
trust with your subscribers, right?
This is trust built with communication,
with consistency and with transparency.
The example I think is like easy is
when we were talking earlier about
synchronization, keeping all
these assets in sync, right,
so I have a figma file
that's got a button in it.
I've got a react component
that has a button.
I've got an angular,
that's got I have a prototype maybe
something inure that's a button.
All of these things are different assets,
different tangible pieces and
parts that different discipline needs
to do their work, with a button.
So now I've got four different versions
of this thing out there, this button.
So when I make a change in one, how do
I make sure we're synchronizing that
across all of these assets that we have.
so I can guarantee you your assets
are never gonna always be in sync.
It's next to impossible to do that,
especially as you scale.
So what you have to do, and this is
a way that you maintain that trust.
Is you're really good with transparency
about the state of those components,
right?
So what, we're talking about is, again,
closing the gap between their expectation,
when they use the thing and
the reality of using the thing.
I want to be clear and say, actually
this button in React is in the backlog
to be updated for a new version but,
we'll support that change.
If you decide to integrate this,
will help you with the migration
up to the new version.
But, you got to let them know
that's what they're getting.
So, that they don't get the Figma thing,
see I'm gonna use the button to use
the button and then it's not what
they saw in the Figma, right.
Now you're creating tension and
you're breaking trust.
So that's kind of what we need to do here.
I'll also say in terms
of tracking this stuff,
there is no tool that does all of this for
you, okay?
I mean, I wish that I could tell you,
it existed you just have to install it and
it works.
But we're literally talking about,
tracking all these different nuances.
Of different usage and different tools,
I mean this is not simple to do.
And so,
early on you can't do all of these, right?
You need to pick one simple path, and you
need to choose a couple metrics of health.
And that might be a very manual process
early on, where maybe once a quarter.
By sending a few emails to ask few
folks how things are going, right,
it can be that simple early on.
But over time,
you can start to develop some more
tools to do these things there are.
There's obviously an API and
figma that lets you see some of this,
there's even analytics in figma.
So you can do some work to kind of pull
the data you get from a specific tool.
Maybe some of the code scraping things
combined with that combined with some
pulse surveys or whatever.
I will get you to a place where you can
report on the health of your adoption,
across these different tiers.
And then I'll just cover one other concept
here in stage two, which is super common.
And I have heard so
many stories from folks,
who have been in this what I just
call a teeter totter maturity.
They've been in this problem where they
get Stage 2, and they do all this work and
they feel like they've
got good adoption level,
they have a good
understanding of adoption.
And then all of a sudden they're in
Stage 3, working on other problems and
pretty quickly they see adoption fall off,
and they fall back into almost crisis
mode, like how do we fix adoption?
And so
this is a very normal experience, and
It's really frustrating and
a lot of folks end up giving up.
And in fact, we were talking
a little bit about Dan Moll earlier,
he's got a great talk on
the design system graveyard.
Which is a real thing,
a lot of our clients are on their fifth or
sixth attempt now.
And that's probably because of
something like this, right?
Where they get into here and
they just they can't get people to adopt.
Or they do for a while and then they
stop using it or something happens,
it's a really frustrating scenario.
As best as I can tell that this happens
because the same team that was so
focused on releasing that first
version of the system in stage one.
Is now being asked to figure out how to
make the system really easy to adopt.
They're being asked to learn how
to provide really good trust,
building customer support,
to their existing subscribers.
And it's a new system, so it's gonna
need support, that is a big job, right?
Customer support for
design systems is a big job.
And almost nobody has that role on
their teams, especially in stage two.
And we're also saying you gotta
continue to add new features, and
fix all the bugs that surface.
And I mean we're just asking
too much of these folks.
So in the face of all of that work,
it's really easy to
leave off of all the stuff that
will make it easy to adopt.
We just push it aside, and we just think,
I've got this fire I got to put out,
right?
But that means that you're spending a lot
of time supporting new adoptions, right.
Instead of evolving the system in
a way that sort of codifies that
ease of adoption automating
the adoption process in some ways.
You're gonna have to take the time
until you take the time to make
it easy to adopt it's really hard for
that to actually last.